We've talked so much about the mechanics
of all these factors of accessibility,
probably so much more than you
even really wanted, frankly.
[LAUGH] But there's visual aspects
that we have to consider as well,
starting with color and visual contrast.
When we tested with debugging earlier,
color contrast,
I think on one site there was
almost 100 color contrast issues.
And so that multiplied across
the web is a huge number of
accessibility issues for color contrast.
And so with this,
we've seen some tools for this.
The Chrome color picker and the Firefox
color picker were super useful for this.
And the ratios are mathematical, so
we can calculate whether something
passes or not, which is nice.
So the requirements,
the regular non-bold text size
below 24 pixels must have
a contrast ratio of 4.5 to 1.
24 pixels is pretty big.
So that's like big headings.
Those pieces of text that are large
scale only have to meet 3 to 1.
They're bigger, they're easier to see,
pretty straightforward.
WCAG, for some reason,
does mention 18 points, but pixels,
that's a unit that we're used to more,
pixels or rems or something.
Points, not so much.
So just note, 18 points is 24 pixels.
That's that threshold
to get into the 3 to 1.
There's also a criterion for
non-text contrast.
That's things like buttons, form controls,
icon buttons,
those only need to meet 3 to 1.
So we saw some tooling for
checking contrast,
there's the Axe Chrome extension,
we'll touch some of this.
There's one that we haven't looked at yet,
that's the Color Contrast Analyzer,
it's a desktop application.
This one's great cuz I could
be in a Zoom call, and
someone could be demoing a pattern or
a design system or something,
and I can sample a color in Zoom,
and I could answer them right then.
Might not be totally accurate
cuz of the Internet, but
you can sample literally any application
on your computer for contrast.
It could be a PDF,
it could be a Zoom call, whatever.
So this one is pretty handy,
gives you an eyedropper,
you can go around and
check foreground, background color.
So that one's worth checking out.
WebAIM has a contrast
checker on their website.
For design, there's Stark for
Figma as well.
And there's also a Triple A criterion,
that's 7 to 1.
So we don't wanna rely on color alone.
If you had, say on your e -commerce site,
you have different colorways of products,
you wanna describe what the color is
also in addition to the color swatch.
Things like data visualizations come up
with this a lot, so that you can have some
differentiation so that you aren't
relying on perception of color alone.
And I have some links in here if you're
curious to dive in more to color,
including this pretty funny one,
it's almost like a quiz from TPG.
It says, when I get that low contrast
feeling, I need non-textual healing.
It's a really funny name.
But the post itself is actually really
great, because they have scenarios
where they walk you through,
I don't know, it's almost like a quiz.
So that one you should
check out after this.
Okay, reflow, so
this is the bit about accessibility and
responsive design and
how closely coupled they are.
And we did touch on this
when we did some debugging.
So designing for reflow,
we want things to go into a single column.
Thinking about form controls, if you can
stack the label over the form input,
that makes it so you don't have to
horizontally scroll if you are low vision.
We want font size and
things to be adjustable.
I like to set the font size on
the HTML tag and then use rems,
and it will scale automatically,
it's amazing.
And some web tools to test reflow, we saw
just the built-in zoom is awesome, but
there's also the device
toolbar in Chrome DevTools.
So just to point that one out,
it's over here in the DevTools,
there is this little
toggle device toolbar.
And you can change the device,
you can change it to any screen width,
you can throttle it,
all these cool things.
But that is another tool for this.
And then there's additional
platform tools with macOS, iOS.
Windows has a magnifier.
There's also a third party
tool called ZoomText.
So reflow.
Okay, reducing motion, this is what our
exercise, our last exercise will be about.
So motion is a big thing.
It can make people sick.
It can make people faint or
have a seizure.
It can be pretty serious.
And so fortunately, we have some
tools that make it really easy
to safely respond to user preferences,
including something called
prefers-reduced-motion.
It's super well supported, and
even on platforms where it
happens to not be supported,
you can add a little toggle or
something to let the user still tell
you that they prefer reduced motion.
So turning this on, on a Mac,
we go under Accessibility > Display, and
there's this little setting
here called Reduce motion.
And so that is really powerful cuz
you can impact your web pages.
We can see the state turning on and
off with something that works with reduced
motion just by checking that checkbox.
And so for this, we have a CSS media
query, we can say media @media.
And for our condition,
(prefers-reduced-motion: no-preference).
And that will say,
if the setting exists and
they haven't checked it,
then we can do animation stuff.
So the flip side of that is when
things are animated by default,
we can say @media
(prefers-reduced-motion: reduce).
And that way, if the user checks
that check or checks that setting,
then we can turn animation off.
So it's kinda the same thing, but it's
whether your default is animated or not.
You can opt in to animation when
it's safe to do so, and that way,
if the user is on a platform that doesn't
support that, it won't be animated.
Whereas the other way, everyone
gets animation until they opt out.
Just two ways to do similar things.
So here's an example.
I'm gonna open this up.
We've got this cat animation.
This uses keyframes,
it has this infinite animation in a mask.
And then down here,
we have prefers-reduced-motion: reduce.
And in my system preferences,
Ha, it stopped [LAUGH].
I can stop the animation
just by clicking that, and
then our code matches and
it responds, it's pretty awesome.
So there it goes again.
So, very powerful.
I'm gonna turn it back on so
we can look at our next example.
So that's the CSS media query.
Sometimes JavaScript
might be the way to go.
And our example that we'll work on
in a few minutes, our last example,
we are going to use
the JavaScript version of this.
So it looks very similar,
but instead of CSS,
we store a variable for a motion query and
store this matchMedia function,
and that's where our CSS bit goes.
So the prefers-reduced-motion:
no preference or reduce,
and you can store a variable to
flip when that condition changes.
We make a motionQuery listener.
The more modern version of this is
to use a change event, have to get
used to use a add listener API,
it worked fine, but it was deprecated.
So the current version of this is to
addEventListener, use a change event, and
then it will call this callback
function whenever that state changes.
So the handleReducedMotionChanged then
will go and watch that motion query.
We call it once to make it fire on load,
and then it will respond.
So here's an example of that, going back,
kind of a throwback to
my ActionScript days.
These eyes will follow your mouse cursor,
which is kind of whimsical and fun.
So it calculates the vanilla
JavaScript to move
where the eyes are pointing
based on where your mouse is.
And then we have the motion query in here,
that the mouse move listener will go and
check that variable for
the user's preference.
So let's go turn that off, Reduce motion,
now the eyes are not moving.
So in case you have some animation or
motion that's all delivered
with JavaScript, you have a hook
now to go and turn that off.
So that can be handy, so reduce motion.
We have prefers-color-scheme.
This one is kind of how this theme
of these slides are created.
So you can match on light mode or
dark mode, it's built in,
similarly well-supported.
And so it's under System Settings,
and Appearance.
And we have, like prefers-reduce-motion,
we have prefers-color-scheme, dark or
light, and then you can do the JavaScript
version as well with matchMedia.
And just a reminder to
check your contrast.
So if you're doing multiple modes
like these slides, I had to go in and
change a few things.
But we have some pretty
awesome tooling for this now.
Okay, so accessibility and
performance, just a mention of that.
We have this concept in performance
these days of skeleton layouts,
and they're pretty great.
I guess my hope is that we
can think beyond the visual.
And so if we're showing something on
screen, maybe just add loading in
a live region, or something to
announce that the page is loading.
Because that is a very visual
approach to a performance problem.
So consider making a screen reader
announcement as part of that.
We want to minimize blocking
interactions so the page will load fast,
that really affects everybody.
So we have some metrics
we could use to track
how long things are taking, that can help.
Performance as a user experience metric.
So I have a graphic from a Tootsie Pop
commercial that made me think of it.
How many keystrokes does
it take to complete a task?
So I think that could be another
way to think about performance.
It's like how many steps does
it take to complete something?
It's kind of another way
to think about performance.
And this is really a throwback to
one of the most pivotal books in
my career that I read,
was Don't Make Me Think by Steve Krug.
We wanna keep things simple,
fewer steps, kinda gets into UX.
But if you can invoke performance as
not only how fast your site loads,
but how complex is it,
I think that could help in the pursuit of
making things simpler and more accessible.
And therefore, often,
easier to build and maintain.